Unsupported algos (#13)
tus/draft-digest-fields-problem-types: draft-kleidl-digest-fields-problem-types.md

## Unsupported Hashing Algorithm

This section defines the "https://iana.org/assignments/http-problem-types#unsupported-hashing-algorithm" problem type.

> A server MAY use this problem type if it wants to communicate to the client that
> one of the hashing algorithms referenced in the integrity or integrity preference fields present in the request,
> is supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A server MAY use this problem type if it wants to communicate to the client that
one of the hashing algorithms referenced in the integrity or integrity preference fields present in the request
is not supported.
```

> For this problem type, the `unsupported-algorithm` is defined as the only extension member.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this problem type, `unsupported-algorithm` is defined as the only extension member.
```

It SHOULD be populated in a response using this problem type, with its value being the algorithm key of the unsupported algorithm from the request.

> The response SHOULD include the corresponding integrity preference field to indicate the server's algorithm support and preference.<!-- I am currently not sure whether to use normative language here. -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response can include the corresponding integrity preference field to indicate the server's algorithm support and preference.
```

## Unsupported Hashing Algorithm

This section defines the "https://iana.org/assignments/http-problem-types#unsupported-hashing-algorithm" problem type.
A server MAY use this problem type if it wants to communicate to the client that

> none of the hashing algorithms referenced in the integrity or integrity preference fields present in the request,

Author: I agree. This is a tricky point, because the server is not required to process all algorithms.

We need to decide whether this problem-type applies to just one of the algorithms, or to all of the algorithms.

> none of the hashing algorithms referenced in the integrity or integrity preference fields present in the request,

Reviewer: Opened https://github.com/tus/draft-digest-fields-problem-types/issues/18 to track this question.

is supported.

For this problem type, the `unsupported-algorithm` is defined as the only extension member.
It SHOULD be populated in a response using this problem type, with its value being the algorithm key of the unsupported algorithm from the request.

> The response SHOULD include the corresponding integrity preference field to indicate the server's algorithm support and preference.<!-- I am currently not sure whether to use normative language here. -->

Reviewer: Do you see a reason why this shouldn't use normative language here?

Author: We can clarify that IF you send a problem-type response, you SHOULD then send an integrity preference field.
In this case, we are not only defining a problem-type, but even defining an associate behavior wrt to the fields that need to be used in conjunciton with it.

Reviewer: Alright, then let's drop the normative language for now.

Example:

~~~ http-message
POST /books HTTP/1.1
Host: foo.example
Content-Type: application/json
Accept: application/json
Accept-Encoding: identity
Repr-Digest: sha-256=:mEkdbO7Srd9LIOegftO0aBX+VPTVz7/CSHes2Z27gc4=:

{"title": "New Title"}
~~~
{: title="A request with a sha-256 integrity field, which is not supported by the server"}

~~~ http-message
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
Content-Type: application/problem+json

> Want-Repr-Digest: sha-512=10, sha-256=0

Author: As you said before, it is needed to reply to an unsupported `Want-*-Digest` request.

> Want-Repr-Digest: sha-512=10, sha-256=0

Reviewer: That's right, we still need it for that.

{
  "type": "https://iana.org/assignments/http-problem-types#unsupported-hashing-algorithm",
  "title": "Unsupported hashing algorithm",
  "unsupported-algorithm": "sha-256"
}
~~~
{: title="Response Advertising the Supported Algorithms"}

This problem type is a hint to the client about algorithm support, which the client could use to retry the request with a different, supported, algorithm.

Note that a request may contain more than one integrity field.
This problem type can also be used when a request contains an integrity preference field, e.g.

~~~ http-message
GET /items/123 HTTP/1.1
Host: foo.example
Want-Repr-Digest: sha=10

~~~
{: title="GET Request with Want-Repr-Digest"}

~~~ http-message
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
Content-Type: application/problem+json

> Want-Repr-Digest: sha-512=10, sha-256=3

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Want-Repr-Digest: sha-512=10, sha-256=3

Author: ```suggestion
```

You're right!
